So let's talk about debugging apps.
Of course, you can't write or
be functional with an application
that you can debug.
And so you're gonna wanna do that.
So let's go ahead and paste this in.
And again, it's gonna be mad at us
over that isolated modules issue which
we can get rid of by saying export
this right here and that will go away.
All right, so in this case,
we're just gonna read in an argument and
write that out.
So let's see how we can debug this.
In Dino, I'm gonna go ahead and quit this,
there is a we could run and
we can pass in this inspect flag.
So we do inspect app.ts.
This will run attaches the debugger, but
then it just immediately exits because
the program runs to completion,
we now have an opportunity to set a break
point anywhere so not terribly useful.
But if we do inspect -BRK,
which I think is the same convention
that node uses, then it will stop,
it will actually stop.
And it's just waiting for
us to connect debugger.
So how do we connect the debugger?
The one way to do it is in
a browser such as Edge or Chrome,
both will work because
they're both chromium based.
If you type in Edge, or actually, for
those of you on Chrome, and
this will work in Edge too, so
we'll just do this inspect Edge just
automatically maps this to Edge.
This is the inspector that comes with
Chrome or chromium powered browsers.
And so what you'll see here in
a minute is it should detect that
we have a process running now.
I wanna be forthright here and say that
I have not been able to get this to work
with the WSL because It's looking for
a file that's in this location,
and this is inside of
the WSL on my machine.
If you're not familiar with
the windows subsystem,
it's just a different file system
that's also running on Windows.
And so what I've had to do to make
this work is actually open and
run this on Windows,
to use the browser debugging.
So what I wanna do here is I'm just
gonna reopen this folder in Windows.
And then you'll notice that
we'll be in PowerShell.
My terminal will be different.
So we're in PowerShell here.
So let's try this again.
Let's just do Dino run.
We're gonna pass and inspect BRK oops,
let's move into exercise.
Dino run.
Collapse this, collapse, no,
I can't do that, all right.
Then we add dino run --, jeez,
having all kinds of problems.
Dino run, inspect-brk app.ts,
I think that's all we need to do.
And then I'm gonna pass in
world which is the value.
They're gonna check it, and
then it should start it and
start the debugger, really something.
Just do this.
By the way, did you know you can
just upgrade Dino with Dino upgrade?
That's pretty nice.
If you've used node before, you have to
remember, you need like a version manager?
Don't need that with Dino, you just do it.
So let's try that again.
All right, so
the debugger is now listening, cool.
So let's go back to the browser and
try this again.
So this time we'll do edge inspect.
And wait for it to detect our
running process and inspect.
And now you can see we're broken inside
and we can actually see the value, and so
if we look at Dino ARDS, do we not pass
one and we didn't pass an Oregon but
normally we'd see that here and
we can step over and
to completion of the program.
Now, you probably aren't going
to debug with a browser,
you can but the better way is to
do it with Visual Studio code.
So let's reopen this in the WSL no.
Try that again, reopen folder in WSL.
So what we wanna do instead what we'd be
better is if we could like set a break
point here like that, and debug inside of
Visual Studio code and we can do that.
So to do that, what we need to do is we
need to go to our debug view in VS code,
which is this little bug
with a play button, and
then we need to create a launch.Json
file which tells it how to attach.
Now fortunately, there's a Dino
option already in the list, so
we don't have to figure this out
it's gonna preconfigure it for us.
So I'm gonna click on this, and
it's going to create the launch.Json file,
and then we'll take a look at it.
So what we've got here is this
program is gonna run, and
we need to point it at the right file, and
our file is exercise app.ts, so
let's do that, exerciseapp.ts.
And then the rest of this stuff,
we can just sort of leave that the same.
The only thing is we wanna pass in some
arcs to this thing, so let's do that.
Cuz it's the program is looking for
some arcs I'm just gonna pass in world.
If we pass them in as runtime arcs,
it will get passed before the filename and
then as we discussed, it wouldn't work,
arcs have to come after the file name.
Okay, so in theory now we should
be able to just come here and
click the play button.
And we have now have this launch Dino
which comes from this name right here, and
it should attach the debugger.
So let's see.
So we're gonna run, okay?
Perfect.
And then let's look at ARDS and
there's our ard it got passed in.
And then if we continue on, console log,
and then we go back into the Dino code,
and then things exit, but
we never actually got to see the output.
Why is that?
Well, that's because by default,
VS code outputs to an internal
console that you can't see.
And so you can change that by
coming to the launch.Json,
let's collapse this terminal here.
And we can say,
come here we can say console,
I think we can change it
to integrated terminal.
So by default, it's internal console,
which is when you can't see, so
we're gonna change it
to integrated terminal.
And then we're gonna run it again.
So let's do it again.
Let's make sure our break
point is still there.
Right, it is.
So let's go ahead and run it again,
and this time look, you see it,
you can see it running.
We're gonna step over, console log and we
can now see it here down in the console.
So, that's how we debug apps with,
Dino apps with Visual Studio Code.
It's pretty easy,
it's pretty much set it and forget it.
It creates the launch configuration for
you.
Not much that you have to do there
besides pointed out the correct file,
the correct entry point for
your project, click play.
We'll do this later on.
We'll look at more complex
application as well.